Okay hello everyone welcome to this week's Stellar Developer Meeting and today I have a couple of guests. So let me bring them onto this stage and first of all thank you for joining please go ahead and introduce yourself I think you are well known in the community at least from your names and your projects. But please thank you for inviting us people know me as OrbitLens I am the lead of the team behind StellarExpert albo Reflector and some other ecosystem projects and today we are here with RF the one and the only RF yeah. So I'm Raph and I've been doing some business development work with Reflector for a bit here helping
doing some Outreach finding some debts would be a good fit and this works really well with our other project I do kind of marketing for seller projects through Lumen Loop. So just kind of just a big Outreach guy and. If you want to know what's going on in the community come to me. But it's just really great to be here and be able to talk about two really good products and kind of jumping into it a little bit. But we're going to be talking about Reflector and refractor both things, that are incredibly useful for devs looking to build decentralized way on Stell great yeah take it away I'm looking forward to this [Laughter] [Laughter] presentation. So Reflector is a decentralized price F article for the Stell DeFi smart contracts and it supports you know Financial derivatives lending borrowing protocols algorithmic stablecoins Asset Management contracts and you know there's just anything, that you want to do with price feeds you can do it
so why are oracles important. So price manipulation is probably one of the most common vectors of attacks. When you're working on DeFi almost every single week we hear about successful exploits. So the rule of sum is. When you write DeFi contracts you have to you write DeFi contracts top oracles and you got to make sure, that you you know you're choosing these price feeds wisely. So again you're only as good as your Oracle. When you're kind of sourcing your data from somewhere else and kind of the really cool thing about Reflector is, that it's it's really built on some known brands in the ecosystems it's a def decentralized consensus, that we they're agreeing on these price price feeds. So it's controlled by a multisig of reputable organizations on Stellar and it really helps guarantee, that reliability fault tolerance and making sure, that those price feeds are updated and secure Reflector kind of relies on, that Quorum of nodes and you can kind of see it in, that picture on the dock there and it's
connected by seller core validators next slide there. So we kind of combined two different Oracle approaches on chain feeds and subscriptions you can kind of think of it as kind of like the like we just have the price feeds rest rest the free. And then subscriptions, which is kind of like a pro level of of of these price feeds what's really cool about Reflector is, that at its base it's free like all, that data anybody can plug into you don't really need to pay for it but. If you do there's some really cool things, that you can you can kind of set for yourself some automations and some some Communications some notifications for, that could be useful. When you're developing. So onchain price feeds are free for everyone the interface allows for a set 40 compatibility standard all the price feed data is stored in the contract itself in a fixed time frame I think free is interval of every five minutes. So the data is readily available for all consumer contracts the use Oracle quoted price results through directly in
the same function it's efficient it's optimized low fees and it greatly reduces the number of contract calls. So again we're trying to make sure, that it's efficient for your DeFi apps to kind of plug into offchain Data or classic data subscriptions on the other hand provide kind of like a more fine grain data access with kind of user defined customable customizable triggers with up to one minute sampling, which again unlocks a lot of use cases with, that one minute sampling this service provides kind of access to a much wider range of available price feeds private web hooks invocations in combination with onchain execution proofs. And then it guarantees again stability and security. So highlights the Oracle contract provides a kind kind of comprehensible interface again for step 40 the ecosystem standard and on top of, that kind of offer like automatic cross price calculations utility functions tww AP range approximations last. But
not least onchain data is again like we said it's completely free. So kind of go ahead and use it I feel like doing Onre is such a sorry we're doing Outreach is kind of a weird thing. Because we're trying to sell devs on a free product go use it it's there we hope this way you know more you know sbon Contra contracts can build kind of safe and reliable infrastructure and kind of, that main goal being we want you to use a system, that's safe and, that's kind of why these nodes, that we we've kind of we work with are incredibly important, that we want to make sure, that you know you like these or these these node providers are securing everyone's DeFi apps. So they're just kind of incredible importance with you know making sure, that consensus mechanism and, that decentralized nature of re Oracle kind of services those DeFi UPS okay. So and, that kind of brings us into the Dow. So you know it is a it's a cluster it's governed governed by
these organizations and they they kind of they serve these and maintain these Reflector server nodes and they participate in this cluster consensus. So again. When you want to get an asset listed this price feed listed you really have to U make a proposal to the dell and submit with the tokens same with adding different kind of price sources again you got to go to Dell and the Dell make the decisions none of it is done by one entity and everyone needs to agree on it and again, that kind of helps secure, that you know all these organizations are key players in making decisions and, that brings us to the Token again the token is what kind of go makes us able to participate in the Dow cluster operators receive actually tokens for participating in the consensus mechanisms and they provide like computational resources to aggregate validate certify. So again it makes them to pay them in token
correspondingly like these tokens are correspondingly acred tokens represent the equivalent of computational resources contributed by by each party these tokens are. Then used by the cluster for governance token and subcription services. So the xrf tokens can be used in cluster governance voting on new price feeds or new cluster members members invitations and the again serve as the backbone for the sub subscriptions and they're required to create C create custom subscriptions and. And then pay for the upkeep of these subscriptions yeah and here we have a few prerecorded videos with the interfaces. Because we have a lot of them I think I will start with the no admin dashboard interface, which is the interface, that displays current configuration for cluster nodes there are public Keys and we. So addresses
for each server below you can see stats for each note other sections contain the list of direct assets for every orle contract and configuration changes history logs Etc life price feed, which is produced by the Oracle is available on The Ledger and on our website collector. network here you can see update history for every Oracle supported by the cluster for both pabn net and test net ler updates are stored on the L itself with regular five minute intervals and immediately after, that available for all consumer contracts, that utilize our price fees and sorry and the next one is the
interface of subscriptions subscriptions is the more advanced solution, which is a kind of a Swiss arment knife for any developer who decides to build any kind of Oracle based Solution on Stellar or some other chains. So subscriptions is a service for user defined triggers invoked automatically once the price deviation reaches a certain threshold every Oracle not independently Eves subscription condition once a minute and consumers receive web hook notifications on triggered price changes let's see how it works in the web interface first we need to select data source for base and quote symbols the quoted value is calculated as quot price divided
by base price there are two options first option is aggregated price from exchanges and price tokens from Stellar public exchange for instance here we select arbitrum token from exchanges. Now the base scker we can utilize the same data source or qu prices for a pair from two different sources this provides the ability to build a personalized Oracle on assets from different feeds and different different asset classes the cluster will calculate the prices automatically here we select yxm and Trigger threshold here it controls the Target price deviation amplitude this example it means, that web hook and point will be notified every time the quoted price goes up or down by
2% com compared to the previous dispatched value Reflector also periodically sends herbit messages with current quote price to let the Upstream service know, that subscription is still active to activate the subscription we need to pay for it with xerf tokens and they also required to pay the upkeep balance gets changed gets charg on the daily basis it is worth noting, that the daily fee depends on the quote complexity and herbe interval here we can use web hook demo website to show how it works we'll just copy paste in the web hook URL and, that's basically it the account, that created the subscription will become its owner we need to confirm the transaction and it will be
it will automatically create the subscription. So basically all all the setup everything is done in the web interface interface here here this description page we can see all key parameters for each of the account subscription as well as remining up keep balance subscription consolation removes it and reclaims reming tockets and here on this interface you can see the nod notifications, that come from the the cluster there was a lot of similarly identical post requests yet they have different signatures each Reflector cluster node sends notifications to Consumers to provide redundant and
reliable proof of delivery as we can see here every incoming request contains information about the subscription quoted price and update time stamp. So what's next we actually developing the protocol and at the moment we're currently working on adding new price feeds for foreign exchange rates and commodities website improvements is another important task for us we need some more quote samples better documentation and developer support to make the integration for new CER as smooth as possible. Because sometimes R needs to go here and there here and back again to explain something and we need to basically explain some very basic things about
oracles and our particular Oracle model and of course the next huge milestone for us is going cross chain we want to expand our subscription service Beyond Stellar. While the Forum and do smart contract logic will be working on Stellar network network. Because essentially subscription subscription subscription service is chain agnostic and U any service any chain or even without any blockchain can receive these price notifications they just need to set up their subscription VI the web hook interface, that's basically it about Reflector we definitely want you to come to our website to join our Discord
and to talk to DS talk to other people and check what you can do with oracles. Because Reflector is the ultimate price reference for Star defe I think one of the big things too is you can see it out in the ecosystem already like you can see it in blend like there's really cool protocols, that are starting to build on to Reflector's. So again go see what's out there you know. If you see what you like maybe you're want to play around with Reflector and once you're ready go check out the Discord or you know reach out to one of us and we can point you in the right right place yeah totally we can answer some questions now. If you have any or we can jump yeah. So anyone anyone, that has any questions feel free to ask I saws he was asking about the QR code, that at the end of the Pres, that's great but. If anyone anyone else has
questions we still have a few minutes. But I would like to ask a couple of questions I'm thinking what what made you start build this. Because this is not just a small pricing price feed Oracle this is pretty comprehensive I mean everything from the security to have it managed by da how how did you get started on working on this and did it it start well project you know we had a conversation with to at the Meridian about two years ago and it was like what what do you want to build on seran well we have Stell expert we are experts in data processing. So Oracle seems like an interesting thing to build. But well right. Now maybe I'd reconsider
this decision. Because it was a pretty bum perod and like I am super grateful to all our Dow members who joined us in this Challenge and task and supported us. Because they are actually the ones who runs the who run the n and protect the protocols on chain currently we have more than 15 million dollars protected by our oracles and it's like def fact Oracle solution for Stellar network I am grateful to everyone who supported us with with this great I think we have a couple of questions mat has a really good one about the
hackathon yeah yeah, that's a pretty good one. So we we we have we've had two Dev competitions up to date just to kind of help us highlight how the oracles can be used and kind of get devs playing with it we had best Oracle contracts we had Lena, which is like a trustless loan platform, that won one of the the prizes we had Pula Labs, that won a trusted portfolio manager, that helps kind of rebalance bance your portfolio automatically, which is kind of cool. And then we had kale kalepail, that did his Reflector predict like betting on prices through an oracle. So those were the three winning ones we had a bunch of walkthroughs and and text writeups as well we had some you know some people, that built some Reflector clients some boiler plates notification Bots again there's just kind of a lot of stuff there and it kind of. If you're interested in Reflector and seeing how it can be used going to the Discord and seeing the submission submission
sections is a really cool like list of different different examples great yeah I have seen. So I've been to a couple of hackathons. Now and I've seen seen the Reflector being used and I know you mentioned kpl I know we use it in general SDF. When we build build cool stuff fun stuff. When we experiment. So but it is I have seen, that both slender and blend have used it too is, that something you are driving something you are seeking out or did they come to you and say this looks like a really neat service well it started with u this this first meeting with st and people. When sban was still in bet and not even on mayet yet. So actually we partnered with some key players at the
time okay great could we maybe just kind of I think we're running out of time. But let's jump into maybe do some just a little touch of refractor. Because it is I will do pretty quick yeah. So refractor is a pendant transaction storage and multi aggregator for Stellar network it's a developer Focus service in the first place. But anyone can use it to store trans ctions and G signatures required to match sign thresold, that's the service, that been around since 2021 and like many active Dow organizations are using it like Aquarius Reflector yel blocks at some point. So it's a very handy toolkit for D Administration join castol accounts secure scroll server Services treasury
Management Services like any any kind of service, that utilize Stellar multi why you might need it It's tricky to check what inside the transaction what are the operations requir signatures and something like this. When you just get some random Exar encoded transactions and someone asks you to sign it G signatures requires sending a transactions via Messengers orail or some other channel, which is like not. So convenient let's say it. If two or more people sign simultaneously one of the signature can be lost lost. If someone signs the wrong transaction everyone needs to start from fresh not enough signatures to M the threshold
and transaction will be discarded by the network too many signatures it will also be discarded by the network it also requires coordination. So someone needs to oversee the process like contol the signatur submit some transaction submit the assigned transaction to the network Etc. So we've been there and, that's, that's actually a painful experience like once you start using multiseq at scale it's it's problematic U refractor allows you to basically upload your transaction XD web form just copy paste transaction exr check selected network click save and, that's it optionally you can choose Auto submit to the network option, which which will allow the system to
automatically submit transaction to the network once it gets enough signatures for it and after creating you can simply share the link with all the signers and, that's it, that's how the transaction looks right and we can see here, that it's much easier to understand what operations are inside what will be the execution result what are the probably probable consequences and Etc pinted transaction page also displays all transaction details current signing status and automatically detected validity period and the key part of it signatures Reflector can automatically detect
all possible transaction signers their weights and total transaction threshold it will show who else can sign and it basically prevents the situation. When too many s signatures were added and transaction again be becomes becomes valid here for example you can see like real world examples from Real World signature with different thresholds how it looks in the process of signing and how it looks. When it's fully signed web interface supports multiple wallets. So there is an option to sign the transaction Visa wallet of your choice or import assigned ex directly. So in case. If you have air gab device or something like this you
can just copy paste XDR there and Reflector will combine valid signatures discard duplicates and remove all inapplicable signatures. So it basically makes the process much more streamlined it's free service it's free for businesses and individuals without limitations we have some some rate limiting. But you can use it for free it's been around since 2021 it is supported by our team it receives some regular updates. So it's been pretty reliable servers it is Battle tested as I told it was employed by different DS and it has open IP. So you can open II you can integrate it directly into into your application or service
and best of all probably it's open source everyone can check what's inside or run on instance and work with it. So it's pretty handy tool anyone who will be managing Dow some kind of multi setup account you just need to check it and maybe it will be right for you, that's, that's I think it's it's very interesting and and I think multis is not necessarily something, that's easy to do. So so having having a tool like this I think, that is super interesting I think actually multii maybe maybe we should do a a separate presentation on, that or separate talk about, that. Because you guys definitely have some experience with, that. So yes. So maybe I think, that could be an interesting topic for for future presentation. But for. Now we
unfortunately out of time I need to wrap it up thank you both of you for joining it was super interesting to to learn more about about what you're working on and yeah can just encourage everyone, that needs pricing feeds to start using it I mean it's it's super easy and it's it's free and it's something, that allows you to scale with your application as well into into maybe a subscription based model. So thank you for joining thanks for having us okay talk to you later thanks everyone by bye